---
title: Mentoring
seo:
  title: Mentoring
  description: A Directed Reading Program with reading groups led by Rochester graduate students
---

## For undergraduate students

The graduate students of the Math Department at the University of Rochester offer mentoring for undergraduate students.

<!-- - Suppose you want to discuss your <a href ="https://www.sas.rochester.edu/mth/undergraduate/research.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">REU project</a> with a graduate student -->

For the Spring 2026 semester we are running a reading groups program, where you can learn about a topic by reading books or papers under the guidance of a graduate student. These reading group topics can possibly turn into an <a href ="https://www.sas.rochester.edu/mth/undergraduate/honors-thesis.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">honors thesis</a> by expanding upon the work done with a faculty advisor.
**Reading groups are open to all students and non-majors are encouraged to join.**

All groups are now started for Spring 2026! If you would still like to try to join a reading group, contact Donovan.

<!-- **_Check out the choices for reading groups below, and check back soon for a link to sign up!_** -->

<!-- ### Sign up for a reading group by filling out [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc4600nan7h-mcE4-L-qsUtv3W756mGGnxnPQfzh21Ram0KlQ/viewform?usp=publish-editor). We will reach out to you by February 9! -->

If you have any comments or questions, contact [Donovan Snyder](/PortfolioSite).

## Reading Group Topics for Spring 2026

<!--
### Title
- *Grad student organizer*:
- *Description*:
- *Prerequisites*:
- *Resources to be Used*:
-->

### Foundations of Algebraic Topology

- _Grad student organizer_: Luke Barbarita
- _Description_: Algebraic Topology studies topological spaces through the scope of algebraic structures and tools, such as groups and homomorphisms. The goal of this reading course is to learn the foundational language and intuition for the subject. We will likely cover, time permitting, topics such as basic category theory, homotopy of maps, fundamental groups, homotopy groups, homology, and cohomology, with an emphasis on how algebraic invariants encode topological information. To do so we will be going through the first few chapters of Joseph Rotman’s An Introduction to Algebraic Topology, focusing on understanding definitions, key theorems, and some concrete examples. Other additional sources and/or topics may be added based off the interest of participants.
- _Prerequisites_: Abstract Algebra (MATH 236) and Point-Set Topology (MATH 240) are required.
- _Resources to be used_: _An Introduction to Algebraic Topology_ - Joseph Rotman

### Arithmetic Dynamics

- _Grad student organizer_: Daniel Gotshall
- _Description_: Arithmetic dynamics generally studies patterns and properties of points formed from iteration of a polynomial or rational function starting at a given point in a field. Originally this area began by studying forward iterates over R and C, leading to the definitions of the complementary Julia and Fatou sets, which are simply the sets of points with chaotic and repetitive (preperiodic) behavior, respectively. This was then generalized to working over number fields, where one can form equivalence relations between pairs of rational functions and certain points. We will see theorems that can use a single member of the equivalence class to make conclusions on the dynamics of all maps in the class. Another topic will involve using "height functions” to quantify the size of the set of preperiodic points of rational maps under certain conditions. If time permits, we will study properties of the Galois extensions generated by adjoining certain preperiodic points. Current research is generally focused on the Galois theory arising from “preimages of points" (iterates done in the reverse direction).
- _Prerequisites_: Math 230 and 237 are required. Some knowledge of equivalence relations/classes and projective space will be helpful, although we will review these concepts if anyone needs.
- _Resources to be Used_: _The Arithmetic of Dynamical Systems_ - Joseph Silverman

### Introducing Polymer Models

- _Grad student organizer_: Roan James
- _Description_: The plan is to introduce the basics of polymer models. These can be seen as simple random walks (SRW) in an external medium/environment. We will start by recalling some of the basic properties of the SRW (transience/recurrence) and then proceed to define polymer models. If there is time, we can introduce the KPZ universality class.
- _Prerequisites_: Math 201 is essential. Math 265 would be helpful but not required.
- _Resources to be Used_: _Random Walks and the Heat Equation_ - Greg Lawler

### Introduction to Harmonic Analysis

- _Grad student organizers_: Zhihe Li, Ke Yu
- _Description_: In an effort to explore the foundations of harmonic analysis, we will begin with the basics of Fourier analysis and functional spaces to study key concepts in the subject. The first five chapters of Thomas Wolff's Lectures in Harmonic Analysis provide a detailed introduction to essential topics such as Schwartz space, Fourier transforms, and its related properties such as Fourier inversion and Plancherel. By the end of this semester, we will apply our knowledge in harmonic analysis to study some results in uncertainty principles and restriction problems.
- _Prerequisites_: Analysis of 170’s, 265H. The topics of the reading course will be adjusted to the level of the students.
- _Resources to be used_: _Lectures in Harmonic Analysis_ - Thomas Wolff

### Algebraic Methods to solve Probabilistic Models

- _Grad student organizer_: Donovan Snyder
- _Description_: The area of "integrable probability" is the study of systems that can be studied and analyzed using algebra: sometimes complicated group and Lie theory, but often times more simple procedures. We'll deal with those more simple procedures to look at examples such as ASEP, the Polymer, and Six-Vertex models and answer basic questions.
- _Prerequisites_: We will need to know the ideas of probability (MATH 201) and will freely use multi-variable calculus and linear algebra (MATH 164,165,235). The ideas of algebra (MATH 236) will be very helpful.
- _Resources to be Used_: Depends on the interest of the student, but likely _The Surprising Mathematics of Longest Increasing Subsequences_ - Dan Romik, _Lectures on integrable probability_ - Borodin and Gorin

### Quantum Information Theory

This isn't officially a reading group, but is something that is happening. If you have interest, contact Donovan.

## Groups from Previous Semesters

### Topics in Category Theory

- _Grad student organizer_: Siddharth Gurumurthy
- _Description_: The preliminary plan is to talk about the basic concepts in category theory: categories, functors, the Yoneda lemma, (co)limits and adjunctions with a bunch of examples. The plan is subject to change and will depend on the available time and the interests of the participant(s).
- _Prerequisites_: Math 236 is required. Math 237 and 240 will help substantially.
- _Resources to be Used_: _Notes on Category Theory_ - Paolo Perrone, _Category Theory in Context_ - Emily Riehl, _Basic Category Theory_ - Tom Leinster.

### High-Dimensional Figures and Mapping Degree

- _Grad student organizer_: Lippus Liu
- _Description_: One might find it easy to think about figures in a 2-dimensional plane. Imagining figures in a 3-dimensional space might also be not that hard. But what if we move to 4-dimensional spaces, or 5, 6, or even higher? Imagination in these cases turns out to be not very helpful. To solve this problem, topologists developed so-called "topological invariants", which can normally be derived by just computations. In this reading group, we will learn about a particular example, that is the mapping degree, which can be used to distinguish mappings between high-dimensional figures.
- _Prerequisites_: Some basic multi-variable calculus (MATH 164/174) and point-set topology (MATH 240) is required. Some knowledge to manifolds will be helpful.
- _Resources to be Used_: _Topology from the differentiable viewpoint_ - John Milnor

---

## For Graduate Students

Mentoring can help you build valuable skills which you may find useful throughout your career, whether you go into academia or industry.

If you want to join this program as a mentor, contact Donovan.
